docs/pages/installation.mdx, before:

# Installation

Welcome to the installation guide for the Laravel Cycle ORM Adapter. This document will walk you through the setup process to get you up and running quickly.

## 🚩 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure your development environment meets the following requirements:

- **PHP Version:** 8.2 or higher
- **Laravel:** 10.x or higher

## 🧩 Compatibility Map

| Laravel | Cycle ORM | Adapter |
|---------|-----------|---------|
| ^10.28  | 2.x       | 4.x     |
| 11.x    | 2.x       | ^4.9.0  |


## 🚀 Quick Start

Installing the Laravel Cycle ORM Adapter is straightforward with Composer. Follow the steps below to add the adapter to your Laravel project.

<div className="steps-container">

### Step: Install the Adapter

For the core functionality, run the following Composer command in your terminal:

```bash
$ composer req wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-adapter
```

This command installs the wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-adapter package, integrating Cycle ORM into your Laravel application.

### Step: Publish Configuration

After installing the package, publish the configuration file using the `vendor:publish` command:

```bash
$ php artisan vendor:publish \
  --provider="WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Providers\CycleServiceProvider"
```

</div>

## 🏭 Database Factories (Optional)

If you need support for [Eloquent-like Factories](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/eloquent-factories), install the following package:

```bash
$ composer req --dev wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-factories
```

which will install the [wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-factories](https://github.com/wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-factories) package to provide similar functionality

Commit message:

docs: configuration section, external links, icons

docs/pages/installation.mdx, after:

import ExternalLink from "../components/external-link";

# Installation

Welcome to the installation guide for the Laravel CycleORM Adapter. This document will walk you through the setup process to get you up and running quickly.

## 🚩 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure your development environment meets the following requirements:

- **PHP Version:** 8.2 or higher
- **Laravel:** 10.x or higher

## 🧩 Compatibility Map

| Laravel | CycleORM | Adapter |
|---------|----------|---------|
| ^10.28  | 2.x      | 4.x     |
| 11.x    | 2.x      | ^4.9.0  |


## 🚀 Quick Start

Installing the Laravel CycleORM Adapter is straightforward with Composer. Follow the steps below to add the adapter to your Laravel project.

<div className="steps-container">

### Step: Install the Adapter

For the core functionality, run the following Composer command in your terminal:

```bash
$ composer req wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-adapter
```

This command installs the wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-adapter package, integrating CycleORM into your Laravel application.

### Step: Publish Configuration

After installing the package, publish the configuration file using the `vendor:publish` command:

```bash
$ php artisan vendor:publish \
  --provider="WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Providers\CycleServiceProvider"
```

</div>

## 🏭 Database Factories (Optional)

If you need support for <ExternalLink href="https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/eloquent-factories">Eloquent-like Factories</ExternalLink>, install the following package:

```bash
$ composer req --dev wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-factories
```

which will install the <ExternalLink href="https://github.com/wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-factories">wayofdev/laravel-cycle-orm-factories</ExternalLink> package to provide similar functionality
