docs/pages/services/validation.mdx, before:

# Validation

Laravel provides several different approaches to validate your application's incoming data. As we plan to use this package in larger projects, better approach would be to use Laravel [Form Request Validation](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/validation#form-request-validation). This way we can keep our controllers clean and our code more readable.

Both `unique` and `exists` validation rules, require the database to be queried. This packages provides this integration.

## ⚡️ Unique

The field under validation must be unique for a given Entity. If the column option is not specified, the field name will be used.

To accomplish this, we can use `WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Unique` rule class.

### Example Form Request

This example shows how to use `Unique` rule class in a form request.

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Bridge\Laravel\Admin\Product\Requests;

use Cycle\Database\DatabaseInterface;
use WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Unique;

final class StoreFormRequest
{
    public function rules(DatabaseInterface $database): array
    {
        return [
            'name' => ['required'], // ... just a simple required rule
            // ... other rules
            'category.id' => [
                'bail',
                'required',
                'uuid',
                new Unique($database, 'categories', 'id')
            ],
        ];
    }
}
```

## ⚡️ Exists

The field under validation must exist on a given Entity. If the column option is not specified, the field name will be used.

To accomplish this, we can use `WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Exists` rule class.

### Example Form Request

This example shows how to use `Exists` rule class in a form request.

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Bridge\Laravel\Admin\Product\Requests;

use Cycle\Database\DatabaseInterface;
use WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Exists;

final class UpdateFormRequest
{
    public function rules(DatabaseInterface $database): array
    {
        return [
            'name' => ['required'], // ... just a simple required rule
            // ... other rules
            'category.id' => [
                'bail',
                'required',
                'uuid',
                new Exists($database, 'categories', 'id')
            ],
        ];
    }
}
```

Commit message:

docs: configuration section, external links, icons

docs/pages/services/validation.mdx, after:

import ExternalLink from "../../components/external-link";

# Validation

Laravel provides several different approaches to validate your application's incoming data. As we plan to use this package in larger projects, better approach would be to use Laravel <ExternalLink href="https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/validation#form-request-validation">Form Request Validation</ExternalLink>. This way we can keep our controllers clean and our code more readable.

Both `unique` and `exists` validation rules, require the database to be queried. This packages provides this integration.

## ⚡️ Unique

The field under validation must be unique for a given Entity. If the column option is not specified, the field name will be used.

To accomplish this, we can use `WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Unique` rule class.

### Example Form Request

This example shows how to use `Unique` rule class in a form request.

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Bridge\Laravel\Admin\Product\Requests;

use Cycle\Database\DatabaseInterface;
use WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Unique;

final class StoreFormRequest
{
    public function rules(DatabaseInterface $database): array
    {
        return [
            'name' => ['required'], // ... just a simple required rule
            // ... other rules
            'category.id' => [
                'bail',
                'required',
                'uuid',
                new Unique($database, 'categories', 'id')
            ],
        ];
    }
}
```

## ⚡️ Exists

The field under validation must exist on a given Entity. If the column option is not specified, the field name will be used.

To accomplish this, we can use `WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Exists` rule class.

### Example Form Request

This example shows how to use `Exists` rule class in a form request.

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Bridge\Laravel\Admin\Product\Requests;

use Cycle\Database\DatabaseInterface;
use WayOfDev\Cycle\Bridge\Laravel\Rules\Exists;

final class UpdateFormRequest
{
    public function rules(DatabaseInterface $database): array
    {
        return [
            'name' => ['required'], // ... just a simple required rule
            // ... other rules
            'category.id' => [
                'bail',
                'required',
                'uuid',
                new Exists($database, 'categories', 'id')
            ],
        ];
    }
}
```
